[2nd Peter]: The Second General Epistle of Peter

1:1 Simon Peter, a servant and an apostle of Jesus Christ, to them that have
	 obtained like precious faith with us through the righteousness of God and
	 our Saviour Jesus Christ: <Notes> = Simon Peter, a bond servant (a slave)
	 and an apostle of Jesus Christ, </Notes>

1:2 Grace and peace be multiplied unto you through the knowledge of God, and of
	 Jesus our Lord, 1:3 According as his divine power hath given unto us all
	 things that pertain unto life and godliness, through the knowledge of him
	 that hath called us to glory and virtue: 1:4 Whereby are given unto us
	 exceeding great and precious promises: that by these ye might be partakers
	 of the divine nature, having escaped the corruption that is in the world
	 through lust.

1:5 And beside this, giving all diligence, add to your faith virtue; and to
	 virtue knowledge; 1:6 And to knowledge temperance; and to temperance
	 patience; and to patience godliness; 1:7 And to godliness brotherly
	 kindness; and to brotherly kindness charity.

1:8 For if these things be in you, and abound, they make you that ye shall
	 neither be barren nor unfruitful in the knowledge of our Lord Jesus Christ.
	 <Notes> For if these things (portfolio of invisible assets) are yours, and
	 keep on increasing (thru intake of BD), they prevent you from being useless
	 and unproductive in the knowledge (epignosis) of our Lord Jesus Christ. 
    </Notes>

1:9 But he that lacketh these things is blind, and cannot see afar off, and hath
	 forgotten that he was purged from his old sins.  <Notes> = For he who does
	 not have these attributes is blind (blackout scartissue of the soul) and
	 nearsighted (ignorance of bible doctrine); furthermore he has forgotten his
	 purification from his former sins.  </Notes>

1:10 Wherefore the rather, brethren, give diligence to make your calling and
	  election sure: for if ye do these things, ye shall never fall: 1:11 For so
	  an entrance shall be ministered unto you abundantly into the everlasting
	  kingdom of our Lord and Saviour Jesus Christ.

1:12 Wherefore I will not be negligent to put you always in remembrance of these
	  things, though ye know them, and be established in the present truth.
	  <Notes> = Therefore, I will always be ready to keep reminding you
	  concerning these things although you already know them and have become
	  stabilized by means of the truth.  </Notes>

1:13 Yea, I think it meet, as long as I am in this tabernacle, to stir you up by
	  putting you in remembrance; <Notes> = Moreover, I consider it my solemn
	  duty, as long as I am alive, to turn you on to Bible doctrine.  </Notes>

1:14 Knowing that shortly I must put off this my tabernacle, even as our Lord
	  Jesus Christ hath shewed me.  <Notes> = Because I know that the laying
	  aside of my tabernacle is imminent (Peter is about to die and he knows it),
	  just as our Lord Jesus Christ has made it clear to me.  </Notes>
     
1:15 Moreover I will endeavour that ye may be able after my decease to have
	  these things always in remembrance.  <Notes> = In fact, I will also be
	  diligent that you may have the doctrine at anytime after my death in order
	  that you may remember these things.  </Notes>

1:16 For we have not followed cunningly devised fables, when we made known unto
	  you the power and coming of our Lord Jesus Christ, but were eyewitnesses of
	  his majesty.

1:17 For he received from God the Father honour and glory, when there came such
	  a voice to him from the excellent glory, This is my beloved Son, in whom I
	  am well pleased.

1:18 And this voice which came from heaven we heard, when we were with him in
	  the holy mount.

1:19 We have also a more sure word of prophecy; whereunto ye do well that ye
	  take heed, as unto a light that shineth in a dark place, until the day
	  dawn, and the day star arise in your hearts: 

1:20 Knowing this first, that no prophecy of the scripture is of any private
	  interpretation. 1:21 For the prophecy came not in old time by the will of
	  man: but holy men of God spake as they were moved by the Holy Ghost.
	  <Notes> = Know this first, that all prophecy of scripture does not
	  originate from man's own interpretation, but men who were carried along by
	  the Holy Spirit spoke from God (ie...inspiration of the scripture).
	  </Notes>

2:1 But there were false prophets also among the people, even as there shall be
	 false teachers among you, who privily shall bring in damnable heresies, even
	 denying the Lord that bought them, and bring upon themselves swift
	 destruction.

2:2 And many shall follow their pernicious ways; by reason of whom the way of
	 truth shall be evil spoken of.  <Notes> = And many will follow their
	 sensuality....  </Notes>

2:3 And through covetousness shall they with feigned words make merchandise of
	 you: whose judgment now of a long time lingereth not, and their damnation
	 slumbereth not.

2:4 For if God spared not the angels that sinned, but cast them down to hell,
	 and delivered them into chains of darkness, to be reserved unto judgment;
	 2:5 And spared not the old world, but saved Noah the eighth person, a
	 preacher of righteousness, bringing in the flood upon the world of the
	 ungodly; 2:6 And turning the cities of Sodom and Gomorrha into ashes
	 condemned them with an overthrow, making them an ensample unto those that
	 after should live ungodly; 

2:7 And delivered just Lot, vexed with the filthy conversation of the wicked:
2:8 (For that righteous man dwelling among them, in seeing and hearing, vexed
	 his righteous soul from day to day with their unlawful deeds;) 

2:9 The Lord knoweth how to deliver the godly out of temptations, and to reserve
	 the unjust unto the day of judgment to be punished: 2:10 But chiefly them
	 that walk after the flesh in the lust of uncleanness, and despise
	 government.  Presumptuous are they, selfwilled, they are not afraid to speak
	 evil of dignities.

2:11 Whereas angels, which are greater in power and might, bring not railing
	  accusation against them before the Lord.

2:12 But these, as natural brute beasts, made to be taken and destroyed, speak
	  evil of the things that they understand not; and shall utterly perish in
	  their own corruption; 2:13 And shall receive the reward of unrighteousness,
	  as they that count it pleasure to riot in the day time. Spots they are and
	  blemishes, sporting themselves with their own deceivings while they feast
	  with you; 2:14 Having eyes full of adultery, and that cannot cease from
	  sin; beguiling unstable souls: an heart they have exercised with covetous
	  practices; cursed children:
2:15 Which have forsaken the right way, and are gone astray, following the way
	  of Balaam the son of Bosor, who loved the wages of unrighteousness; 2:16
	  But was rebuked for his iniquity: the dumb ass speaking with man's voice
	  forbad the madness of the prophet.

2:17 These are wells without water, clouds that are carried with a tempest; to
	  whom the mist of darkness is reserved for ever.

2:18 For when they speak great swelling words of vanity, they allure through the
	  lusts of the flesh, through much wantonness, those that were clean escaped
	  from them who live in error.

2:19 While they promise them liberty, they themselves are the servants of
	  corruption: for of whom a man is overcome, of the same is he brought in
	  bondage.

2:20 For if after they have escaped the pollutions of the world through the
	  knowledge of the Lord and Saviour Jesus Christ, they are again entangled
	  therein, and overcome, the latter end is worse with them than the
	  beginning.

2:21 For it had been better for them not to have known the way of righteousness,
	  than, after they have known it, to turn from the holy commandment delivered
	  unto them.

2:22 But it is happened unto them according to the true proverb, The dog is
	  turned to his own vomit again; and the sow that was washed to her wallowing
	  in the mire.

3:1 This second epistle, beloved, I now write unto you; in both which I stir up
	 your pure minds by way of remembrance: 3:2 That ye may be mindful of the
	 words which were spoken before by the holy prophets, and of the commandment
	 of us the apostles of the Lord and Saviour: 

3:3 Knowing this first, that there shall come in the last days scoffers, walking
	 after their own lusts, <Notes> = First of all you must understand that in
	 the last days there will come decievers with their derision following after
	 their own lust pattern.  </Notes>

3:4 And saying, Where is the promise of his coming? for since the fathers fell
	 asleep, all things continue as they were from the beginning of the creation.
	 <Notes> = And saying, "Where is the promise of his coming?" For since our
	 ancestors died all things continue as they were from the beginning of all
	 creation.  </Notes>

3:5 For this they willingly are ignorant of, that by the word of God the heavens
	 were of old, and the earth standing out of the water and in the water:
	 <Notes> = For they, the decievers, deliberately ignore this fact: that by
	 means of the Word of God the universe existed long ago and the earth was
	 formed out from water and by water.  </Notes>

3:6 Whereby the world that then was, being overflowed with water, perished:
	 <Notes> = Thru which, at that time, the earth was destroyed by being flooded
	 with waters. (The antediluvian civilization was destroyed except for Noah
	 and his family.) </Notes>

3:7 But the heavens and the earth, which are now, by the same Word are kept in
	 store, reserved unto fire against the day of judgment and perdition of
	 ungodly men.  <Notes> = But the present heavens and earth, by his Word, are
	 being reserved for fire and kept for the day of judgment and destruction of
	 the unbelievers.  </Notes>

3:8 But, beloved, be not ignorant of this one thing, that one day is with the
	 Lord as a thousand years, and a thousand years as one day.  <Notes> = But,
	 beloved, stop letting this one thing escape your notice: one day from the
	 Lord is as a thousand years, and a thousand years is as one day. (The elapse
	 of time does not keep God from keeping his Word.) </Notes>

3:9 The Lord is not slack concerning his promise, as some men count slackness;
	 but is longsuffering to us-ward, not willing that any should perish, but
	 that all should come to repentance.  <Notes> = The Lord is not slow about
	 his promises, as certain ones (the decievers of verse 3 regard slowness, but
	 he is patient towards you, never willing for any to perish, but for all to
	 come to repentance (repentance!=metanoia=A change of mind).  </Notes>

3:10 But the day of the Lord will come as a thief in the night; in the which the
	  heavens shall pass away with a great noise, and the elements shall melt
	  with fervent heat, the earth also and the works that are therein shall be
	  burned up.

3:11 Seeing then that all these things shall be dissolved, what manner of
	  persons ought ye to be in all holy conversation and godliness, <Notes> =
	  SINCE ALL THESE THINGS WILL BE DESTROYED IN THIS WAY WHAT SORT OF PERSONS
	  MUST YOU BECOME IN A DEDICATED TO GOD LIFESTYLE EVEN YOUR VERY OWN
	  SPIRITUAL LIFE.  </Notes>

3:12 Looking for and hasting unto the coming of the day of God, wherein the
	  heavens being on fire shall be dissolved, and the elements shall melt with
	  fervent heat?  

3:13 Nevertheless we, according to his promise, look for new heavens and a new
	  earth, wherein dwelleth righteousness.

3:14 Wherefore, beloved, seeing that ye look for such things, be diligent that
	  ye may be found of him in peace, without spot, and blameless.

3:15 And account that the longsuffering of our Lord is salvation; even as our
	  beloved brother Paul also according to the wisdom given unto him hath
	  written unto you; 

3:16 As also in all his epistles, speaking in them of these things; in which are
	  some things hard to be understood, which they that are unlearned and
	  unstable wrest, as they do also the other scriptures, unto their own
	  destruction.

3:17 Ye therefore, beloved, seeing ye know these things before, beware lest ye
	  also, being led away with the error of the wicked, fall from your own
	  stedfastness.

3:18 But grow in grace, and in the knowledge of our Lord and Saviour Jesus
	  Christ. To him be glory both now and for ever. Amen.
